Hey, I am charming. I charming. I'm mr. Hilarious. You're not mr. Hilarious. Just hilarious. Yeah. Yeah, sorry
Yeah, all right
Screw that up already. Thank you. You want us as go for your?
Labels for us. We had a conversation we talked about you want us
Cast talk last podcast. Yeah, and we had a little Twitter exchange afterwards
She insisted we were charming and hilarious. We insisted she was wrong
In fact, she is wrong because in this room she cannot argue with us anymore. So correct. All right, so I'm actually
Not Brent and I am not Alan. I
Always want to say stuff and see what Brent does. Hey, this is episode 27 of a be testing welcome everyone and
27 I don't it's a it's a nice number
Sure cube divides by three. Yeah, that might even be three squared
Don't you don't you have like a math degree?
Gonna sip some coffee. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. All right. I gotta think what's new. What's new with you anything?
Anything cool? I'm saying going on. Hey, I just came back from vacation. Where'd you vacate to? I took two weeks off
first week I spent
Finishing off a sentiment analysis project for my school. Oh, yeah. Sorry. I know I know it sounds boring
No, I like really cool
It's a lot more work than than I ever expected to just get to 85 percent accuracy
And then I spent the next week at Walt Disney World
Those who are around or near Florida during last week
one of the one of the exciting things was it's hurricane season and
Erica spent a good portion of the week threatening to let us not go home. Oh
So every day I was calling the airlines. Hey, have you canceled what's going on?
And it turns out up until
literally 8 p.m. That day
Everything was gorgeous except it's freaking humid in Florida. I'm never moving there. All right. Good to know. Yeah
I'm sure actually people in Florida would be happy to hear that. Yeah, yeah, they're lucky
Anyway, yeah, it was it was good times. Very cool. Very cool. Should we dive right in?
One thing no, not yet. We talked about her
Presentation where we got the charming and hilarious. I wouldn't re-reviewed it after our bar
And you didn't like it didn't like it. Oh, it was fantastic
That's
Thing was gonna go off in the wrong direction. They're one of her slides where she talks about the mysterious customer
like
That cracked me up. I
I didn't see the recorded talk. So I haven't seen her president. I think I got the slides
I walked through I think it's finally been posted with they kind of post things in order
I haven't chance to go through everything. I've only watched a couple talks, but I believe it's posted now
I think I saw a tweet about that. I absolutely think it's it's a worthwhile
I'll see if I can dig up a link and put it in the the elaborate show notes. I post every every episode
That was sarcasm for those of you that just download the episode never read the show notes
There's like two sentences there in this episode Alan and Brent talk about nothing period and yeah
We're like the Seinfeld of test podcasts
Except we're not funny
That's absolutely true. All right. So one thing in
number 26 podcast 26
We were talking about cast and we've had all just a like a 30-second talk about context-driven testing the school and
Which I thought was plenty but Brent would like to talk about it some more so I'm not always a fair game talk about
Well, so dive in a little bit. I don't know. It's it's
Almost a mailbag item, right? We
All right now it is a mailbag item. All right, that's right
we had we had several folks who took that that 30-second blurb that we put in and
Wanted to get more information from us as to why we sort of felt that way. So are you
Let's get some of the that before someone
Just turns off the podcast and either yells at us or just ignores us
Are you?
Against the context-driven school. I am NOT against any of the schools that the
Thing it so Alan in in his Twitter response said something and I don't think I could say it more succinctly
I just think it's redel. They had 140 characters
Yeah, I know
But I think the context-driven school of testing
Redundant I think it's just simply testing. I'll play devil's advocate because I've watched the growth and the the following of this school and
So I'll play the other side of it and there is bad testing going out there. There is factory type testing happening
In the world today. I also call that bad testing or I mean, I think all
When I first read lessons learned in software testing
Which I I think the cut the school is out before them
But it was mentioned in that school quite mentioned in that book quite a bit
I thought well a lot of stuff like yeah, this is that comes book. That's the I call it the gang of four book
It's BOC
Pedicord can maybe just three of them BOC pedicord and caner. Okay
Lots of you know interesting ideas
I thought it was great that
you know, sometimes
There are things like I know I haven't read it like in ten years, but like
One page says do this next page says don't do this. I thought it was great
It's kind of a good thought of the funny way to bring up context like it depends
Both articles were about the context of when you do that why it's good and why it's bad. I think
if
testing weren't knowledge work if
testing were the same thing it's like you need to make sure that if software testing was
There are four red buttons and four green buttons on this thing. Make sure when you press each of them, they make a ding sound
You would not need context for that. But I think any knowledge work is context driven. I can't think of any sort of
whether it's
There's no context driven school of lawyers
But lawyers for the most part even like the most boring law job you can think of there's context to how you do that
You know you you know what I mean medicine, especially there's no context driven school of medicine
I'm trying to think of wait, I I started off on devil's advocate and then I and then I fell off the wagon
I'm sorry. No, I actually I
Think that's probably the best you could do on devil's advocate in this context
Years ago
Before I had gone back to school and significantly slowed down on on writing my blogs
I actually wrote a blog
Entitled test is a four-letter word. I remember that one. That was one of your first ones. I think first you've written one of the earlier
Yeah, you only written like ten. So I've written at least 15. All right, whatever. Anyway, go on
and
In there I was referring to I found that there's a link in that blog
towards a old slide deck that
from pedicord who talks about the the four schools and
After our last podcast I brought it up because I wanted to remind myself of the of the context
Or the content rather in the first slide like bothers me immensely
He just is Brett announcing the four schools. I think there's five now. I don't recall with the fifth the agile school
Which I think you know
Yeah, and who wrote that I you know what I haven't followed the etymology know it like it was added
It could have been pedicord. I think and we'll get a lot of corrections from the the hardcore
indoctrination of these schools, but
again, I think it's very similar overlaps a lot with the
The context or in fact, I would anyway, there's an agile school's fifth one and there's a sixth one also
Wonder if Lisa or Elizabeth have the sixth the sixth one I'm introducing today
I'm gonna get the cat out of the bag is the Allen and Brent school of testing. I
Think we should come up with a the a B testing school
That may imply actual a B testing size worried about that one. We'll call it the BA testing. I'm back testing. I'm okay with that
But when you look at the slide deck, like the first first thing I notice is that it was published and presented
February
2003 well for the first time right? I mean, I'm gonna I'm gonna try and stay on the devil's advocate side
I'm just it was I don't know when lessons learned came out. I guess it was right about then
Maybe it was 2004. Maybe it was three that it came out. So actually that maybe they overlapped a little bit
When did your book come out?
2008 2008 it is now
2015 I believe oh
Yes, let me check my calendar. Okay. Good job
And we we've talked about this on the podcast before and you've even blogged about it
Your the content of your book if you were to write that today
How much if you were to write second edition?
I know that but that book is very there are but there are timeless books
There are books from longer ago that I still find very relevant. So that's so I don't want to harp now playing devil's advocate
Or do you actually think that that's relevant in this context? Um
It's slightly relevant. I think what's happened. What's happened over the years is the other schools which are factory analytic
What's the other one?
You know
They've become even less quality assurance. Oh, yeah
Analytics, I think I wonder if it's in context
Is I think those schools have become the schools have become less relevant
In fact if I were to rewrite this and I'm not going to I'm not giving suggestions
And I'm sure someone will tell someone and cool and they'll yell at me about this
But if I were to rewrite if I were to look at this say I wrote this a bunch of years ago
Like I like I looked at my book. I thought well, this is irrelevant. You mean? Yeah
Let me finish my sentence
So I have talked about how I would rewrite my book if I could rewrite it today
Yep, if I had written this this slide deck
I think the way I think about it today is less about the four schools and they're just sort of a treatise on how
Testing because it's knowledge work needs to be context driven and because I think the other schools
They are I mean, I'm sure someone gave me examples of Joe podunked IT shop in
Saskatchewan
Absolutely is the factory school for these reasons and that's great
But they probably don't make software that people like or use very often. I think anything you're I think
Good even not even great, but all good software testing is absolutely context driven. So so the idea of
Indoctionating a school around it. It doesn't bother me because like okay, whatever the bet it seems
Like it's like whatever to me. It's like it's the same same for me, right? It's
What they're I must by the way, I am a crappy devil's advocate
Don't hire me as a devil's advocate because I fall off the wagon to his I can't I can't I can't keep in my role
It depends on the context. Oh, you know what? Yeah, we should have separate
Test and dev Alan. Do you think you could devil's advocate that side or the opposite side?
the funny thing is is one of my
There's a I probably have half a dozen
Quotes I use often enough where I clean them as my own and I should number them some point
But one of them is the answer to any sufficiently complex question is it depends
And I don't know if I've been using that sentence for longer than the context of a school's been around or not
But I've been using it for a long long time
Yes, so it doesn't matter. Yes, and I
Want to suggest I mean Daniel pink is well known for drive and motivation
But the book biff previous to that I'm a big Dan pink fan
Wrote a book called uh crap now. I can't remember
No, no, don't look it up. It's gonna come back to me a whole new mind. Oh
Whole new mind which is about
Knowledge workers and how people who use the right side of the brain are gonna be the creativity as part of their work are going to rule
The world and it's it's not rocket surgery
It's not unique to testing that is context driven. We need to get out of that mindset
So yes test needs to be contact driven and we can't test
Software that people actually would like to use and want to use the same way. We test buttons on a widget. Okay done story over
Agree you had more you wanted to say so so just looking at the
at this deck like number one
This is old old old content. I would say it at
Today the only real value in the the context driven school is
For people who who need that to validate their identity. That's quite honestly it it gives people like to belong
Yes, so sure I belong, you know, I'm the context driven school. It's great
And I think there are people the one thing I liked about watching the cast talks
Is there some people that are really gut they wear their their their context driven school name patch proudly on their jacket every day
but what I noticed not the talks it was a lot of talks actually just from people like you want to just
just give a good talk and
They didn't dive into the doctrine of
CDT
They just talked about doing good testing work and then that's that's good. I think that's great
So agreed whatever if you need it for your identity, that's fine. I'm not I
Again, I have nothing against the context driven school. Maybe I have something against schools. I don't know it just
Probably I think we've we elaborated enough on that
Yeah, let me do the preemptive next sort of brings up the next podcast
Somebody at some point in the next week or so
Well, maybe even today if I get this out today
We'll post a link to an updated doc on the school say no, Alan. It's much different. We have an updated doc
It's not old it is in context and I'm gonna read it. I'm gonna go. Yeah, but my my stance is the same
So this is nice the updated. I'm great
Great. We took care of the problem of being old and and it really is still contextual today
And that's awesome, but my stance doesn't change. So thank you very much. Yep. Same here. All right
So there is our library still is redundant and it is likely only valuable for for people and their identities
There's our elaboration on CDT. You know, it's funny. Why is it CDT?
Context see the context driven testing. Oh, because I do I'm a con thesis in bios all over the place
I'm a context driven tester. Okay
Again, that's redundant
You know what Brent I'm a context driven driver me too I'm a context driven podcaster
That's not fair because what somebody's gonna say is in that one you use context driven to mean sucks
All right
Took me it's it's almost 9 o'clock in the morning. Yeah takes France an extra half a second to catch on here
Yeah, but I don't know that I would dispute that
So hey I
Last night we're changing the topic here and I think you have you have a conference coming up, but I'm gonna start first
Go ahead. I'm gonna let you finish and now I'm not did you watch a totally random here? I watched the
The MTV music video awards on Sunday to check those out
Is this the thing where Kanye goes on his yeah forever long?
It was yeah, that's the one yeah, so
You know, so I watched the whole thing. I haven't I haven't watched the whole video
I'm freaking old and I haven't watched the whole music video words in years
But it was it's funny you watch this two and a half hour award show and they give away like four awards
That was pretty funny
but uh, I
Forgot us to say about that. But oh, are you supportive of West in 2020? Um, you know, I don't think so. I
Want to hear his platform?
Yeah. All right. Anyway moving on
Last night I awesome, bro. I
Bought some plane tickets. Yeah, where you going and a hotel reservation?
Maastricht, Netherlands, I probably got the name wrong. It's like m a a
Strich D
You talked about that's about a hundred miles from but I know where it is now because it's about a hundred miles from Amsterdam
So I'm gonna fly into Amsterdam take a train up there and hopefully find my way around
You've been there before haven't you I've been to Amsterdam
That I've been to Copenhagen
Which is a different country but in that part of the world. I've been to I've been to a bunch of places in Europe
But this is my first time to Maastricht and what are you doing this time?
I'm giving a talk at a mobile. I'm giving a keynote at Euro stars mobile deep dive
So the zero star goes on from it's like all week
Monday through Thursday, then there's this
Mobile deep dive on Friday and I am going to talk about what I I think you guys all know that the team
That I recently left was the team that made is making or has made I don't know
I'm not keeping up with them, but we made Android apps work on Windows phone
So big challenge in mobile application development is compatibility. Mm-hmm
Especially if you go to Android you have all the different hardware and different OS's and and dependencies but iOS has many as well
and we had it kind of from the other end or building a we have all the Windows phones and
Trying to get we're doing app capacity other side trying to make all these Android apps run on Windows phone now
This this could that you guys worked on
That's only with the phones that that ship with the windows 10 that'll be on the new windows phones. Yeah. Yeah
Which I believe should be out by Christmas. I don't know I
Have to look at it, but I'll anyway it's funny
I'm looking almost daily because my fold phone is old and I want a new one in and you'll like it because I'm gonna dive
pretty deep into how we used telemetry and
Data analysis to sort of solve a lot of the app combat problems
So this is your first non test conference in a while and you're doing it. It's a test conference
Oh, is it so it's Eurostar is testing conference
I'm doing a mobile deep dive at the end and then that's in November, but I'm doing I
Mentioned last year something to walk through kind of my horizon here
Just for the hell of it because it's random and it's morning. I just my coffee just kicking in last spring
I ran a half marathon for the first time
I think I'd mention that but I'm doing another one
So last time my goal was to finish in two hours and it took me two hours and 45 seconds
I was pretty bummed about that
Didn't stop that water
Is the other way around I had to stop and pee
So seriously 45 seconds and I had no gas left to run at the end though. So I'm doing another one
I'm doing a do-over in in October
I'm gonna see if I can get that time under two hours. I think I'm on track but as we'll see how that goes
You're practicing right? What do you mean practicing?
Way back in the day I used to I used to run cross-country and we would art
When we trained like I would run 10 miles every day. I don't miss those days
I'm too. I'm really too old for that. So I all the training I don't really have a
I mean I run
I'm running I don't know 20 or 30 miles a week. I've been doing longer and longer runs
I can I can run 10 miles pretty comfortably
not at race pace, but my
for what it's worth my
My like five and six mile times are way lower than they were six months ago
So I think hopefully that translates into a what's your five mile time?
about
48 minutes 47 minutes
Best I ever did was under 35. Yeah. Well, you're younger than I was. Alright, anyway, so I'm doing that
But I did I felt way too long talking about that. I am I just gave Lee Kulp on an ab an abstract
Remember last year in the spring I mentioned I got a call I was going down to
Someone canceled and I went down to the better software conference in Las Vegas to fill in and give a talk on
Actually that a B testing
So it went it went well enough that that ended up being a
For me was surprisingly a great deck. I
You don't talk about the data science stuff all that often
So I made a false assumption that Alan has no clue what he's talking about and actually he does it
Was a good deck. I can fake it and you know what it went well get till you make it baby
I made it because I made it well enough that I'm going back to better software
They lost Vegas to give a half day tutorial on a B testing
fantastic
You should have seen the bread
Said everything I said before I take back
You don't know enough to talk about a B testing for a half for a half day
No, I and I do I suspect you do I suspect I'll figure it out. I'll
Know we'll play games. I don't know. I have time to think about it. So that's coming up
Lee's a very funny man. I think that's it. Um, and you have something coming up too, right?
Yeah at the end of the so I'm not going to present
But at the end of the
September I'm flying to New York, but they'll be my first time ever in New York. So I'm pretty excited about that
For the city so great the name to twice, right? Right. Yeah for the strata conference. Oh
Which is for those who aren't
In the world. It's a major big data and data science conference
I'm gonna be going there partly to always like to learn latest and greatest and I find
It's interesting the world
today when it comes to to data science
those folks working on
Hadoop yeah
Kind of pushing the the envelope so it's a great place to pick up new tricks and new ideas
But I'm primarily going there for recruiting. Oh
Which for it
so I've signed up for all the
Networking events and I that's what we need we actually the first time in like 15 years. I have business Carter cards ordered
You know, I haven't ordered business cards in a long time. I do have
Angry weasel business cards. I said, I don't know where they are
Holy cow off think about that. They were show you this
No, I I had I got like a thing for a free like
50 pack or hundred pack of business cards, but in design so I designed some angry weasel
Oh, is this like one of the deals up on cloud or yeah
I've had like three dollars for shipping. I got some it's fun to do
When did you use those never?
They're still in the box they could give one away. I was thinking like for your book tour or something
Oh speaking of which I went to
Right
If there's any of the three that's in New York and and you're gonna be in that neighborhood send me during that time
Love to meet you send me a message on Twitter. Let's see if we can connect. All right two things
I'm gonna do one if I ever get that cloud deal again
I'm getting a B testing business cards with hashtag one of the three. Yeah, two wait
You're not one of the three. No, if we count us as one of the three then we have like one
Coffee is working for me Alan. Apparently not for you charming hilarious and an idiot. All right
On Friday it was awesome Trey McRae shout out
Recruiter it right I shouldn't calmer it didn't invite me to recruit me
But I got to hang out with a bunch of people from riot games who make
League of Legends they invited me that little shindig down it in Seattle and they got to have some
Beer and food on them and hang out and talked to him for a while
Cool people who was fun. I was I was like socializing software people. I ended up talking to
some of their testers about
Or I guess there were testers there. We're talking about quality stuff
I didn't ask him what their title was there an online game. They have all the right
Processes in place and it was good to talk to them and why they call you over, you know, Trey's been
Apparently internet from I hear from his co-workers internet stalking me for some time now
So he it was gonna be in Seattle said I will meet this man. So he hung out. It's cool. That's nice guy
Anything else on the upcoming home front? I get to the last topic. Yeah, that's good. And then we'll get out of here
So I posted a tweet about this yesterday
And this is the rant portion of the because we screwed up and put the mailbag at the beginning
but the rant portion of the podcast is
I've ranted about this before
Not on the podcast. Can I do one bit of intro?
But because because it occurred to me when we were talking about the
the charming and hilarious
Topic. Mm-hmm, right the what we what we ended up in the episode 26 is talking about
In essence god damn it. We're sick and tired of testers playing the victim card. Yeah, and in it
And here's another example of the victim card. I saw it a lot
It came because I saw it a lot yesterday and it comes up that comes in spurts, but it's it's
consistent enough that I don't get it is a
lot of
The cool kids, I don't know consultants a lot of experienced testers, too
I don't actually I kind of know who some of the consultants are. I shouldn't blame them
I don't know who they all are. I don't look at bios that often on Twitter
But I see a lot of blogs and posts
About we could make better software if it weren't for the managers or we need to get managers to let us do our jobs
correctly or managers are stopping me from being you know a
Proper tester blah blah blah blah blah blah if I were to if I were to just pop out of the ether
With no other context and read this stuff. I go. Oh my god all
managers of software projects in the world are complete idiots and morons and I will and
Apparently entirely anti-test. Oh even though more than likely they hired the tester right and even better
they are they they focus their whole job around you know bean counting and
and absolutely no context and and
Guess what there are probably some managers like that. That's great and
All know most know some yeah, but
backing up a step
You know I've worked for good managers and bad managers
I've been really lucky to have some really great managers in my recent past, but I've had really bad ones as well and
Regardless
One thing I can tell you and if I think if you would talk to any of my managers for the last 10 or 15 years
Microsoft they would say they would agree with me when whether I've had good managers or bad managers
You know if one thing I said to my boss when I came here
Was this current team current team this? Thank you
I said I have a track record of making my managers better and
And we had a conversation about that news
Blob is great, but I've done that I I think I have helped every single one of my managers get better at their job
In multitudes of ways, I think it's really important think it's important
Sure, I can complain about them
But to be the victim and go I can't do it because my manager says my very first day at Microsoft
My very first week at Microsoft
I've told this story. I think it's in the book
I've told it before manager gave me a list of test cases and said you need to run these every day
I said well when do you need them automated by because I was gonna just they were very automatable test cases said oh
No, we don't have time to automate. You just need to run these every day and I could go to you know
The Twitter wasn't around them, but I go my managers
Management will let me automate and I could just kind of be the the cry baby and go do this thing
You know what?
I'm gonna automate him anyway because I know I can do this like in my spare time
So I had them automated by like Thursday and and they run in the background while I was doing other exploratory testing it worked out
fine, I
Don't know if I made that manager better that manager was
Probably my worst manager at Microsoft if I didn't realize after I had better managers
But there's a point when I think even if you have a bad manager
You don't need to be blocked by them or if you have a bad managers manager
You don't need to be blocked by them the one thing I know I've said before on this podcast is is I didn't make
This one up. I've heard it before if you have a bad manager and management chain
You know you can change your organization or you can change your organization
Meaning you can be an instigator of change in your organization and moving things in the right direction
Or you can get a new organization to work in but I'm so tired of the whining and complaining and it
What bothers me more is it is this is this anecdotal and this may not be true?
But it isn't always like the person in the org making the complaint. It's like some
person who's not even a
Employee at a software company, but works in software
Saying these things about management in general when they have no and they have no context
So well I've worked with or I've talked with and every time I see some logical fallacy bothers you the most every time
I've someone's really gone off on like really far out there with I call him on it
I say do you have an example of this you point me to know but I've heard of this or I've talked to someone
Who did this and it's like oh Jesus?
Form your own damn opinion that part of context forming your own opinion. Well, apparently they're part of the factory school. Oh
There's my problem
Anyway, that's kind of my rant for the day on I just stop it. Stop it. Stop it. Stop it
I know the three you guys don't do this, but tell your friends to stop too. So I am a manager
You are actually actually was funny just yesterday. I was telling one of my employees
He didn't understand why I made a certain decision like screwing him on his review. No, he actually got a fantastic
But he didn't understand one of my decisions
Where essentially
We had this huge
big data job that was taken and I stole resources from one of the big data jobs to
Feed it to this other one and that created a huge bottleneck on the thing I stole from
We had this big fire drill this other thing needed resources and I basically made a decision to damn the torpedoes
I don't care what happens to this thing. Yeah, it's gonna screw things up. But this other thing we got to get
Going and he's like man. That's really screwed us up. And I said, you know
Oftentimes I just want to remind you that I that I am a manager
And what that means is, you know, a lot of times we spend a lot of times talking about architecture and really cool
brainstorming and
Strategizing and building plans and doing really excellent work
But just remember that every now and again, I am still a manager, which means there's a little bit of pointy-haired guy in me, too
But on the on the manager thing right that the one thing
Right. It's one thing to tell people
Quit friggin whining and take control of your own destiny
That's another thing is is
What they should be doing instead
Right a lot of these managers when they are not managers, but the employees like my oh my manager doesn't care about quality
The hell he doesn't there's not a single manager on the planet that has hired a tester that doesn't care about quality
It's about
risk or
Return on investment in your particular case your your first story, right?
And I do find it interesting that my first manager also is the worst manager I've had as this company
I think you know for context on there. I think especially back then not as much anymore
We've kind of flattened dorks, but their turnover was so high
I might because people were resting and getting out of here at that time early in our careers
The managers we worked for were very inexperienced not just as managers as employees
I know people that were became people managed to being at Microsoft like a year. Yeah, and and
We were back in those days
It still happens, but back in those days if you got into management
It was generally because you were awesome as an IC
Yeah, and it it takes a while for people to realize and it took us as a company a while to realize
Just because you're awesome as an engineer doesn't mean you're gonna be awesome at management
And that it's funny because I've seen that I'll sidetrack here, but I saw that come up
I forget who was tweeting about that or blogging about that just very recently, but
Is there should be a path for and we figured this out a while ago, but there should be a path for ICs
It's not management. Yeah. Yeah anyway your story is and in it and there there is I mean nowadays
Yeah, I don't think it's true at all companies. I think a lot of people
I like a lot of companies your path your only path to growth is management
I think it's done that I think that's still true today, right? Anyway back to whatever to your manager
Right back back in those days
right
God MS test was still around
Recorded scripts
Were the dominant way people automated? Mm-hmm, right?
and it was very common for
Those things to suck the soul of your test team away from maintenance because no one
Testers the primary testers that we hired back in those days were were essentially
Knowledge workers and it was very common that they didn't understand how to code
Right. I remember multiple times walking through very high-level testers and introducing them to oop
right
So I think your manager just made a call on round his perception. Oh, absolutely of what it's gonna cost the other thing, too is
Testers
They always got to be conscious of what the right thing
Right. The biggest thing I find is that they're not thinking about the right thing as it relates to the business
They're thinking about the right thing in some sort of idealistic
point of view around a
Pure testing world a pure quality world like software should be bug-free
No, that's the quality. That's the quality assurance school, right?
Close your laptop. Yeah
one thing I'm gonna interrupt is
One thing I've done for I learned to do this about ten years ago
I do it a lot is wish I would earlier in my career is once someone makes a decision
You don't agree with you don't like or they're dumb and smart people make dumb decisions all the time, but often
What I've learned to do now is I think about there's a motivation behind that
Where does that where did that come from and absolutely?
I was looking at my manager, but his motivation is I need to have these my
Man, just probably beaten on me to make sure he's tests to run every day if he takes time to automate those
They're not gonna get run so we can't do that
So that's really easy for me to see today or it's gonna take too long to run and I I need these results
Yeah, because we have some fire. Yeah, but you see that all the time
It's like, you know your your employee says I can't you know, you cut that really screwed this up. You look motivation
Well, I don't think why would someone cut that and probably because well, this other thing obviously is more important
It's very critical. So
Anyway, I think anytime someone makes a decision that you don't like don't agree with you think is dumb
One really valuable exercise is to just take a moment to reflect and brainstorm in your head on
What motivated that decision or that action and then then that gives you different context to work with them on
Especially when you want to modify that behavior. I'll add color to that, right?
Almost every manager whether to do it consciously or subconsciously when they're making decisions like their job is to make decisions
They're making decisions on a return on investment criteria. What's the value I'm gonna get out of this
What's it gonna cost me and
What is the window of opportunity where this value is useful and I would even modify that that part of the state
When I think of managers and leaders, I think leaders make decisions a manager can be a leader
Leader doesn't have to be a manager managers make decisions to it. Yes
But some managers who are better leaders are better at it and do it more often and make more
higher
Riskier or more impactful decisions. There are a manager can be and I've known managers who
Weren't great leaders. They're okay leaders, but they were really good people managers
They knew how to relate to their employees give them the right work
Make sure they were motivated make sure they had the skill and the will etc etc etc
Which I guess involve decision-making as well. Can you briefly because
We're not on the same page anymore. Can you briefly define manager and leader?
Manager who is someone who asked people reporting to them
in charge of
Responsible for their career as well as you know
work, etc, etc, etc. A leader is
Someone who does not who may or may not have people reporting to them. But the leader is
Does more coaching whether it's technical coaching or career coaching?
can make decisions can
So a manager who's a good people manager?
Can not be a leader. No, we can't be no
But the Venn diagram is that there is what I'm saying what I'm saying is it's possible
What I'm exploring a manager what I'm exploring people manager and still not be a leader and still not be yeah
Maybe not be much of a leader. Okay fair enough. All right
My my bar I give this speech quite a bit, right?
The biggest difference between a
manager and a leader
managers
Have people who report to them first and foremost leaders may or may not but managers do have people who report
Leaders though have people who follow them. There's a key difference between those two
My reports if I'm a manager my reports don't have to respect me they don't even have to
Follow my beliefs. They don't even have to believe in what I believe
but if I'm a manager, they do have to do what I say a
leader though
If you don't have people who follow you and a follow means they've made a decision
that
What you're saying is the right thing. It's goodness. It's the right path to go it
Will not only benefit whatever the goal we're trying to achieve but but benefit them directly
right
We talk here at Microsoft
We have this thing called the senior band and one of the most common speeches
I give people is that to get into the senior band you have to show signs of leadership and then I go into
As long as speech as the what is leadership and to get out of the senior band you have to show them that you've mastered it
And that you have the capability
To be an investor in the business. Yeah, and you remember many years ago
I designed and taught a course to testers on what it meant to be senior and talked about many of those things
Yeah, that that cracked open like you had a whole like testing personas thing that you did for a while
Yeah, I had all kind and oh man. I haven't thought about that
Yeah, it's a different world because the world has changed and I've recognized that the world has changed and not holding on to ideas
From the past. Yep
So on that on that pointed note. Yes. How about we bring 27 to a close? Yep
Alright, mr. Charming. Okay. I'm charming Alan. I'm hilarious Brent and we'll see you next time. Thank you